# ffqc

(Work in progress!)

This is a mock version of FastQC called ffqc. It currently just makes the main graph after handling input.

# Install instructions

Installation requires the `Biopython`, `numpy`, `pandas`,  and `seaborn` libraries to be installed. You can install these with `pip`:

```
pip install Bio numpy pandas seaborn
```

Once required libraries are installed, you can install `ffqc` with the following command:

```
python setup.py install
```

Note: if you do not have root access, you can run the commands above with additional options to install locally:
```
pip install --user Bio numpy pandas seaborn
python setup.py install --user
```

Another Note: if you get a warning like this while installing:
```
WARNING: The scripts bio and fasta_filter.py are installed in '/home/jedmonston/.local/bin' which is not on PATH.
  Consider adding this directory to PATH or, if you prefer to suppress this warning, use --no-warn-script-location.
```

make sure to add the directory in the quotes to your path. This can be done by running 
```
PATH+=':<directory location>'
```
You can add this line to your .bashrc file if you want PATH to always include this directory. Also don't forget the ':' in the command. For example, to fix the error above I would put
```
PATH+=':/home/jedmonston/.local/bin'
```

and the place where my scripts download should now be on my PATH.

If the install was successful, typing `ffqc --help` should show a useful message.

# Basic usage

The basic usage of `ffqc` is:

```
ffqc [-d output directory] [other options] in.fq
```

To run `ffqc` on a test example (using files in this repo):
```
ffqc -d output test_files/NA12878_child_1.fq
```

This should produce a png file named mainfig.png in the output directory plotting quality per position. It is currently super large, this will be fixed in the future.

To compare to output of `fastqc`, run:
```
fastqc test_files/NA12878_child_1.fq
```

then it should generate an html file. You can open this file in a browser, and our figure should be similar to the top figure of fastqc's output.

# ffqc options

The only required input to `ffqc` is a fastqc file. However, the -d directory is recommended unless you want everything dumped to your current working directory. 

* `-d DIRECTORY`, `--directory DIRECTORY`: directory all images will output to.



# File format

The current output file format is a png of a graph. In the future there should be more than 1.

# Contributors

This repository was generated by Joseph Edmonston, with inspiration from [FastQC](https://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/)

# Testing

run this command to unit test. NOTE: If you delete/rename files in the test_files folder this may not work
```
 python ffqc/tests.py
```

